# OncoSim Overview
OncoSim is a computational tool developed for the final project of MBS 337, Research Computing in Biology. It focuses on select triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) cell lines and primary therapeutic drugs used to treat TNBC. 

Based on user inputted data (time, cell counts), their selected cell line and therapeutic drug, OncoSim will return a graph illustrating the logistic growth curve for cell populations in terms of sensitive and resistant cells, and the total cell population over time. It additionally will return a predicted resistance proability.

Resistance probabilities were determined using the IC50 values from cell passport data publicly available from the Genomics of Drug Sensitivity in Cancer (GDSC) database, which provides large datasets on drug sensitivity in cancer cells.

For the sake of data availability and classroom purposes, only 36 raw data points could be extracted from the dataset. To generate enough data to train the model, 300 more data points based on the drug and cell line IC50 were randomly generated. Ideally, OncoSim would expand to take in user inputted data of the cell counts under certain drugs to generate enough real, experimental data.

To build OncoSim and run it:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/alypham16/oncosim/
python3 training.py
docker build --no-cache
docker compose up
```
Or, instead of the last two lines:

```bash
make compose up
```

If training is successful, the following should be printed on the terminal: Model trained on GDSC-derived labels

OncoSim should then be available on the user forwarded 8050 port. To shut down the container:

```bash
make compose-down
```
## Dash App Usage

To use the Dash, users can replace the default time points and cell counts with their own inputted data, select the appropriate TNBC cell line and therapeutic drug. 

Upon clicking "Run," there should be a resistance probability that appears below the button and a graph of the user's data points, the sensitive and resistant populations, and total populations.

The graphs will span over 168 hours, or 7 days. This is a rough default parameter of how long it takes TNBC cell lines to fully fit the logistic growth curve.

## Files

- README.md: This file, used to describe the contents and mechanics of the project.
- backend.py: Backend code that includes functions that fit the cell counts into the logistic growth curve equation, predicts the resistance probability, and runs the simulation for the tumor cell population.
- dash_app.py: Code used to layout the Dash of OncoSim, from the dropdown menus, titles and headers, to the visual graph.
- docker-compose.yml: Production container configuration
- Dockerfile: Builds the Python environment and installs appropriate requirements
- Makefile: simplifies container management; includes commands on how to build, stop, restart the container
- requirements.txt: a txt file of all the required modules for this project
- simulator.py: A file including logistic fit functions, and a simulator function that returns values for the plotly graph on the dash
- training.py: A file including preparing the example CSV pulled from the Genomics of Drug Sensitivity in Cancer cell passports for IC50 values, generating synthetic data values for sufficient training of the model, and training the model.
- GDSC_data.csv: The complete dataset pulled from the Genomics of Drug Sensitivity in Cancer cell passports. With the current build of OncoSim, only 36 final data entries will be used.

## AI Usage

- dash_app.py: Example chunks generated by ChatGPT for developing the visual logistic growth curve graph for the OncoSim dash was referenced. This was used mostly used due to lack of experience with plotly.

- training.py: ChatGPT was used to generate the function generate_features, which deals with the lack of real sample points available from the GDSC dataset based on the restrictions of OncoSim. See the function description in training.py for a more detailed description on its usage.

- GitHub Copilot was used to help write some function definitions across all python and txt files. Most primarily, Copilot was used to finish identifying the data type of the functions and to quickly list out parameters/returns. Copilot's autofill option for these functions would appear, and after verifying if it correctly listed the parameters/returns, its description was included. Copilot's autofill was primarily used to simply speed up the process of listing the parameters/returns and listing object types.
